### Learning Objectives
- Define what statistics is
	- Statistics is the science of collecting, organizing, and interpreting data in order to get usable information to make decisions.
- give an example of a population parameter and an example of a sample statistic
	- [[parameter]] -> percentage of black haired people in Canada
	- [[statistic]] -> approval rating of a politician based on a phone survey of people on the province of Ontario
- Be able to classify a variable into quantitative or qualitative, and as nominal, ordinal, interval, or ratio

##### Definition of statistic
- What is [[Statistics/1.1 What is Statistics/Definitions/Statistics|Statistics]]?
	- the study of how to collect organize analyze, and how to interpret numerical information and data
	- it is both the science of uncertainty and the technology of extracting information from data
	- it is used to help us make decisions.
- [[Individuals|Individuals]] and [[Variables|Variables]]
	- Individuals are people or objects that are included in a study
	- Variables are characteristics of an individual that is measured or observed
- Examples of statistics, individuals and variables in healthcare
	- Statistics
		- CDC collects, organizes, analyses, and interprets numerical information and data
		- they extract ==usable information== from the data to make ==decisions== about the flu shot for next year.

##### Parameter vs. Statistics
- What is a [[Population|Population]]
	- A group of [[Individuals|Individuals]] with a common theme
- What is a population and what is a sample?
	- [[Population|Population]] is a group of [[Individuals|Individuals]] with a common theme
	- [[Sample|Sample]] is a small portion of that [[Population|Population]]
- Difference between population and sample data
	- [[Population|Population]] data is data from every individual
		- census
	- [[Sample|Sample]] data is data from a portion of individuals from a population
		- survey
- Population [[Parameter]] and sample [[Statistic]]
	- A [[Parameter]] is a measure that describes the entire population
	- A [[Statistic]] is a measure that describes a sample of a population


##### Describing vs. Inferring
- [[Descriptive statistics]]
	- involve methods of organizing, picturing, and summarizing information from *[[Sample|samples]] and [[Population|populations]]* 
	- [[Inferential statistics]]
		- involves methods of using information from a [[sample]] to draw conclusions regarding the [[population]]

##### Classifying Variables
- [[Quantitative]] vs. [[Qualitative]] data
	- [[Interval]] vs. [[Ratio]] data
	- [[Nominal]] vs. [[Ordinal]] data
- All data can be classified as either [[qualitative]] or [[quantitative]] 
- data can be further classified as [[interval]], [[ratio]], [[nominal]], or [[ordinal]]

##### Statistical notation
- N -> Total population
- n -> Sample of population

 
 
